## Rank Distance Distinguishability

This file describes our Python based software for computing segment 
center(s) and disinguishability of two permutations.

`rdd.py`: This script computes the segment center(s) and distinguishability 
of two permutations `u` and `v`. For command-line options run:

```bash
> python rdd.py -h
```

`gen_data.py`: This script generates data for estimating the algorithmic 
complexity of the `find_one_*` functions in `rdd.py`. The data consist of `r` 
(for replicates) files, each consisting of `n` permutations of order `m`. The 
permutations generated are such that the mean and standard deviation of 
their distances from identity are within a specified tolerance level of the 
analytic values. The data files are named `<m>_<n>_<r>_<t>.txt`, 
where `m`, `n`, `r`, and `t` denote the permutation order, number of 
permutations per replicate, replicate number, and tolerance respectively. 
For command-line options run: 

```bash
> python gen_data.py -h
```

`complexity.py`: This script estimates the algorithmic complexity of the 
`find_one_S_m` (algorithm A), `find_one_S_mu` (algorithm B), and 
`find_one_S_m_mu_hybrid` (algorithm C) functions in `rdd.py`. The input data, 
generated by the `gen_data.py` script, are fed to this program via `STDIN`. 
The results (average search time, average number of edges traversed, and the 
excess of distinguishability over ideal radius) are saved in the specified 
output file. Command-line syntax:

```bash
> python complexity.py <outfile>
```

`plots.py`: This script generates plots (as PDFs) for visualizing the 
algorithmic complexity of the `find_one_S_m` (algorithm A), `find_one_S_mu` 
(algorithm B), and `find_one_S_m_mu_hybrid` (algorithm C) functions 
in `rdd.py`. These plots include: average search time, average number of 
edges traversed, and excess of distinguishability over the ideal radius; 
the x-axis in each of the plots is the permutation order. The input to the 
script are the names of the result files (one per replicate) produced by 
`complexity.py`, specified via `STDIN`. Each data point is an average over 
all the replicates.

The bash scripts `gen_data.sh`, `complexity.sh`, and `plots.sh` are wrappers 
for the corresponding Python scripts and are meant for batch processing.

`search_graph.py`: This script generates a search graph in which the 
vertices are permutations of order `m` and two permutations `u` and `v` are 
connected by an edge if there are indices `1 <= i, j <= m` such 
that `u[i] = u[j] + 1` and `v[i] + 1 = v[j]`. Command-line syntax:

```bash
> python search_graph.py <order> <outfile>
```

`all_centers.py`: This script takes the search graph of order `m` produced 
by `search_graph.py` and for each permutation `u`, finds all (segment 
and non-segment) centers of `(u, id)`. Command-line syntax:

```bash
> python all_centers.py <order> <infile>
```

## Software Dependencies

* [Python](https://www.python.org/)
* [NumPy](http://www.numpy.org/)
* [Matplotlib](http://matplotlib.org/)

## Contact

If you have any questions about the software, please email 
swami.iyer@gmail.com. If you wish to have access to the data that were used 
in the experiment described in our paper, please email Catalin Zara at 
catalin.zara@umb.edu.
